docs: Add S3 documentation (#2835)
prefix-dev/pixi: docs/advanced/s3.md

# Use S3 with pixi

If you want to use S3 object storage to fetch your packages, you can use the `s3://` protocol as a channel.

```toml title="pixi.toml"
[project]
# ...
channels = ["s3://my-bucket/custom-channel"]
```

> In the bucket, you need to have the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the bucket, your objects need to adhere to the standard conda repository structure:
```

```
my-bucket/
    custom-channel/
        noarch/
            repodata.json

>             ...

Reviewer: add `linux-64` too?

```

Pixi supports two ways to configure access to your S3 bucket:

> - Using AWS credentials from environment variables, AWS configuration files, ... like in any other AWS tool
> - Using pixi's configuration in combination with storing the credentials in pixi's authentication storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Using AWS credentials from environment variables or AWS configuration files, like in any other AWS tool
2. Using pixi's configuration in combination with storing the credentials in pixi's authentication storage
```

!!! warning ""

>     This is an either/or situation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These two options are mutually exclusive!
```

    Specifying `s3-options` (see below) will deactivate the AWS credentials fetching.

>     You can either use the AWS credentials (by not specifying `s3-options`) or from pixi's authentication storage (by specifying `s3-options`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can either use the AWS credentials from the conventional locations (by not specifying `s3-options`) or from pixi's authentication storage (by specifying `s3-options`).
```

$ export AWS_CONFIG_FILE=/path/to/aws.config
$ export AWS_PROFILE=conda
$ aws sso login
Attempting to automatically open the SSO authorization page in your default browser.
If the browser does not open or you wish to use a different device to authorize this request, open the following URL:

https://my-company.awsapps.com/start/#/device

Then enter the code:

DTBC-WFXC
Successfully logged into Start URL: https://my-company.awsapps.com/start
$ pixi search -c s3://my-s3-bucket/channel my-private-package
# ...
```

```yaml title="ci.yml"
jobs:
  ci:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      # temporary credentials via OIDC
      - name: Log in to AWS
        uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v4
        with:
          role-to-assume: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/github-poweruser
          aws-region: eu-central-1

      - name: Set up pixi
        # AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY are set by aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials
        uses: prefix-dev/setup-pixi@v0.8.1
```

## Using pixi's configuration

You can specify the `project.s3-options` in your `pixi.toml` file.

> This might be especially useful if you want to use a custom S3-compatible host and not use AWS's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This might be useful when you want to use a custom S3-compatible host and not AWS's configuration.
```

        }
    ]
}
```

## S3-compatible storage

Many other cloud providers offer S3-compatible storage APIs.
You can use them with pixi by specifying the `s3-options` in your manifest file.

### MinIO

```toml title="pixi.toml"
[project.s3-options]
endpoint-url = "https://minio.example.com"
region = "us-east-1"
force-path-style = true
```

### Cloudflare R2

```toml title="pixi.toml"
endpoint-url = "https://<account-id>.eu.r2.cloudflarestorage.com"
region = "WEUR"
force-path-style = false
```

### Wasabi

```toml title="pixi.toml"
endpoint-url = "https://s3.de-1.wasabisys.com"
region = "de-1"
force-path-style = false
```

### Backblaze B2

```toml title="pixi.toml"
endpoint-url = "https://s3.us-west-004.backblazeb2.com"
region = "us-west-004"
force-path-style = true
```

### Google Cloud Storage

Note pixi also supports `gcs://` URLs.

```toml title="pixi.toml"
endpoint-url = "https://storage.googleapis.com"
region = "us-east-1"
force-path-style = false
```

### Hetzner Object Storage

```toml title="pixi.toml"
endpoint-url = "https://fsn1.your-objectstorage.com"
region = "US"
force-path-style = false
```

## Uploading to S3

You can upload to S3 using `rattler-build upload s3`.

> For more information, see [rattler-build's documentation](https://rattler.build/latest/authentication_and_upload/#s3).

Author: https://github.com/prefix-dev/rattler-build/pull/1299#discussion_r1937350814

Reviewer 2: Let's remove it for now, to avoid confusion

Author: it's commented out right now so nobody should see this. is this okay as well?
